Loan Disbursement Analysis

Business Case

1. Montly disbursements in EUR for the last 6 months 
principal_amount_eur as a measure


2. Disbursements per Loan officer
Count of number of loans approved/disbursed by each officer in last month .
Volume of total disbursed loan i.e (sum(principal_amount_eur ))


3. portfolio at risk 
=KPI dashboard to observe 
(sum of principal_amount_outstanding_eur) with overdue days greater than 30 divided by total sum (principal_amount_outstanding_eur)

4. Add filters to breakdown by branch_key, product and loan_officer


Analytic Approach

1. Understanding Business
2. Data Requirements and collection
3. Understanding and Preparing the datasource
4. Data Modeling
   Identify fact , dimension table and see if we have any reference table
5. Build visualization 
     a. Prepare the data using Power Query and load
     b. Power BI Modeling
     c. Form Reports / Charts / dashboards
     d. Deploy to Power BI serveice and thus to power BI apps


Methodology 

1. Business analysis of disbursement is performed with all amount in EUR as per Requirement.
2. Firstly , a Dashboard showing the last 6 months of disbursement status is created. This is last 6 months from as of date of last disbursement. i.e Feb 29,2020.
The total disbursement with year and month are presented. The filter for all and specific Product , Loan Officer and branch is provided to drill down the data for analysis.
3. Second dashboard is the last month's disbursement details . So here last month represents the last month for the choosen date in the filter.The disbursement graph presents 
the total disbursed amount and number of loans disbursed for each loan officer for previous month. 
The data can be further drilled down for specific branch and product.
4. KPI here is Portfolio at Risk . 
PAR is calculated as Outstanding Amount for all loans with more than 30 days of outstanding / all outstanding loans.
The 30% PAR is presented for all Loan potfolios that have outstanding items.
5. List of invalid loans are presented . These are loans that does not have associated data in master table(i.e LoanDetails dimension table)



